---
author: sohaibbbhatti
comments: true
date: 2013-01-25 11:31:26+00:00
layout: post
slug: codility
title: Codility
wordpress_id: 189
categories:
- General
tags:
- Codility
- Interview
- Test
---

I just gave a test on [Codility](http://codility.com/) as part of an interview process for landing a job that I've been eyeballing for quite a while now. This has left me with mixed feelings about the nature of the test.

I really love the idea of  giving such tests as part of an interview process. This way, I believe, quite a lot of time is saved for the interviewer in screening applicants out. However, I fear that such tests might not be completely accurate.

In my case, there were 3 questions that I had to write the code for in a time span of 45 minutes. Since, I'm fairly comfortable with the Ruby language I decided to attempt my questions using Ruby. Immediately the feeling that the way how I was writing my code, was not proving beneficial assessing the necessary skills(Complexities were stated, where as Ruby is an extremely verbose language that provides a whole suite of methods). I immediately shifted to Java. 5 Minutes later I realized if I continue any further I  wouldn't be able to complete the test which led me to revert back to Ruby and frantically attempt to solve all the questions. As an afterthought I should have read up a bit about codility and how they assess code before giving the test.

Also my advice to all people giving the test



	
  1. Switch off your phone!

	
  2. If you happen to live in a third world country plagued by load shedding, know the scheduling of black outs. It isn't too big of a problem, but in my case whenever electricity goes or comes back my router reboots. This happened to me twice shedding away around 4 minutes.

	
  3. Let the rest of your family know beforehand that you're about to give a test and should not be disturbed. This is the point that I'm cursing at myself for not following mainly because of laziness. Today also happened to be a public holiday which results in a greater probability of guests visiting. Exactly, what happened to me as a result of which I lost my train of thought in the middle of the test.

	
  4. Take the [demo test](http://codility.com/demo/take-sample-test/). Its a good way of getting used to the interface as well as developing an understanding to the nature and format of the problems you'll be solving.

	
  5. A cliche but, Time Management! Do not waste too much time on one particular problem. Solve the rest and come back to it.


